Int. No. 989

By Council Members Kallos, Garodnick, Treyger, Gentile, Dickens, Espinal, Rose and Rodriguez

A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring air quality monitoring near marine transfer stations

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. Title 17 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new section 17-198 to read as follows: 

ยง 17-198 Air quality monitoring in areas adjacent to marine transfer stations. a. For each city-owned marine transfer station that is accepting solid waste, the commissioner shall, in conjunction with the commissioner of environmental protection, regularly monitor air quality for, at a minimum, the following pollutants in the vicinity of such station: particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, lead and ozone. Such monitoring shall occur no less frequently than daily and shall occur, where practicable, within 500 feet of such station.

b. On or before the fifth day of each month, the findings of such monitoring for the immediately preceding calendar month shall be published on the website of the department and the department of environmental protection and shall be sent by regular and electronic mail to:

1. The council member in whose district the marine transfer station is located and the council member in whose district such monitoring is occurring;

2. The community board for the community district where the marine transfer station is located and the community board for the community district where such monitoring is occurring; and

3. The chairpersons of the council committees on environmental protection and health.

c. If such monitoring finds that pollutant levels exceed the United States environmental protection agency national ambient air quality standards for such pollutants at any time, such finding shall be published on the website of the department and the department of environmental protection and shall be sent by regular and electronic mail to the persons identified in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of subdivision b of this section within five business days after such finding.

ยง 2. This local law takes effect 120 days after it becomes law, except that the commissioner of health and mental hygiene and the commissioner of environmental protection shall take such actions as are necessary for its implementation, including the promulgation of rules, prior to such effective date.

LS# 3622
JCH
9/14/15 11:40 AM
