Int. No. 1130

By Council Members Kallos, Lander, Cabrera, Rose and Chin

A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to the amount of campaign contributions that may be matched with public funds and increasing the cap on public funds available

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. Subdivision 2 of section 3-703 of the administrative code of the city of New York, as amended by local law 67 for the year 2007, is amended to read as follows:

2. (a) The threshold for eligibility for public funding for participating candidates in a primary or general election, or special election to fill a vacancy, shall be in the case of:

(i) mayor, not less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars in matchable contributions comprised of sums up to [one hundred seventy-five] two hundred fifty dollars per contributor including at least one thousand matchable contributions of ten dollars or more;

(ii) public advocate and comptroller, not less than one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars in matchable contributions comprised of sums of up to [one hundred seventy-five] two hundred fifty dollars per contributor including at least five hundred matchable contributions of ten dollars or more;

(iii) borough president, an amount equal to the number of persons living in such borough as determined by the last census multiplied by two cents in matchable contributions comprised of sums of up to [one hundred seventy-five] two hundred fifty dollars per contributor including at least one hundred matchable contributions of ten dollars or more from residents of the borough, or ten thousand dollars comprised of sums of up to [one hundred seventy-five] two hundred fifty dollars per contributor, whichever is greater.

(iv) member of the city council, not less than five thousand dollars in matchable contributions comprised of sums of up to [one hundred seventy-five] two hundred fifty dollars per contributor including at least seventy-five matchable contributions of ten dollars or more from residents of the district in which the seat is to be filled.

ยง 2. Subdivision 2 of section 3-705 of the administrative code of the city of New York, as amended by local law 67 for the year 2007, is amended to read as follows:

2. (a) If the threshold for eligibility is met, the participating candidate's principal committee shall receive payment for qualified campaign expenditures of six dollars for each one dollar of matchable contributions, up to [one thousand fifty dollars] one thousand five hundred in public funds per contributor (or up to five hundred twenty-two dollars in public funds per contributor in the case of a special election), obtained and reported to the campaign finance board in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

 (b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision three of section 3-706, in no case shall the principal committee of a participating candidate receive public funds pursuant to paragraph (a) above in excess of an amount equal to [fifty-five] eighty-five percent of the expenditure limitation provided in subdivision one of section 3-706 for the office for which such candidate seeks nomination for election or election.

ยง 3. This local law takes effect 120 days after it becomes law, provided, however, that the campaign finance board shall take any actions necessary prior to such effective date for the implementation of this local law including, but not limited to, the adoption of any necessary rules. 

SMD
LS #6934
3/17/16
