Int. No. 368
 
By Council Members Kallos, Chin, Constantinides, Cornegy, Gentile, Koo, Vacca, Rodriguez and Mendez
 
A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring certain city government-provided public information to be posted online.
 
Be it enacted by the Council as follows:
 
Section 1. Legislative intent. The intent of this legislation is to ease the process by which New Yorkers can receive information required to made available by agencies by moving such information online.
ยง2. Title 23 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new chapter 7 to read as follows:
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC INFORMATION
ยง 23-701. Public Information to be Posted Online. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever the terms "public information," "public inspection," or "inspection by the public" are used in the charter or administrative code with respect to the provision of a specific type of information to the public, the information provided by a city agency pursuant to any such requirement shall include, in addition to any other requirements of law, publication of all such information on the agency's website, in an open format, and publication to the open data portal created pursuant to chapter five of this title, no later than such time as such information is provided by any other means. For the purposes of this section, the term "open format" shall mean a format that is both human and machine-readable, and an open application programming interface that provides the general public with bulk downloads as well as specifications for routines, data structures, object classes, variables, remote calls and such other information as would be necessary to access information externally through an open standard that is available to the public without any registration requirement, license requirement, royalty, fee or any other restrictions on their use.
ยง3. This local law shall take effect 120 days after its enactment into law.
 
dss
LS 733/2014
5/20/14
