Preconsidered Int. No. 1069

By Council Members Kallos, Garodnick, Reynoso, Richards, Cohen, Chin and Lander

A Local Law to amend the New York city charter, in relation to making the members of the city council full-time officials

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. Section 46 of the New York city charter, as added by a vote of the electors on November 7, 1989, is amended to read as follows:

§ 46. Rules of the council. The council shall determine the rules of its own proceedings at the first stated meeting of the council in each year and shall file a copy with the city clerk. Such rules shall include, but not be limited to, rules that the chairs of all standing committees be elected by the council as a whole; that the first-named sponsor of a proposed local law or resolution be able to require a committee vote on such proposed local law or resolution; that a majority of the members of the council be able to discharge a proposed local law or resolution from committee; that committees shall provide reasonable advance notice of committee meetings to the public; that all committee votes be recorded and made available to the public; that for council members, earning outside income, as defined in such rules, is prohibited.

§ 2. Section 1100 of the New York city charter, as amended by a vote of the electors on November 8, 1988, is amended to read as follows:

§ 1100. Head of department; whole time. Every head of an administration or department or elected officer [except council members] who receives a salary from the city shall give his or her whole time to the duties of the office and shall not engage in any other occupation, profession or employment.

§ 3. The provisions of this local law, and any rule promulgated pursuant thereto, do not apply to any council member who has engaged in any other occupation, profession or employment during the council’s 2014-2017 session prior to January 1, 2016 and who intends to continue to engage in such occupation, profession or employment for the remainder of such session, if such council member submits a letter to the speaker no later than March 1, 2016 describing such engagement and intention.

§ 4. This local law takes effect immediately. Section three of this local law shall expire and be deemed repealed January 1, 2018.

DSS
1/28/16
