Int. No.

By Council Member Kallos

A LOCAL LAW

To amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring city 
government-provided public notices to be posted online. 

Section 1. Legislative intent. The intent of this legislation is to modernize the City's public notice requirements by moving them online where they can be easily accessed by interested New Yorkers. 
ยง2. Title 23 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new chapter 7 to read as follows: 

CHAPTER 7

PUBLIC NOTICE

ยง 23-701. Public Notice to be Posted Online. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever the terms "public notice," "notify the public," or "public notification" are used in the charter or administrative code, and wherever any notice requirement exists in the charter or administrative code with respect to a public hearing, and wherever any provision of the charter or administrative code requires the publication of any notice in a newspaper or other periodical, including the city record, any notice provided by a city agency pursuant to any such notice requirement shall include, in addition to any other requirements of law, publication of all information included in such notice on the city's website, in an open format, and publication to the open data portal created pursuant to chapter five of this title, no later than such time as such notice is provided by any other means. For the purposes of this section, the term "open format" shall mean a format that is both human and machine-readable, and an open application programing interface that provides the general public with bulk downloads as well as specifications for routines, data structures. object classes, variables, remote calls and such other information as would be necessary to access information externally through an open standard that is available to the public without any registration requirement, license requirement, royalty, fee or any other restrictions on their use.

ยง3. This local law shall take effect 120 days after its enactment into law. 

dss 
LS 757/20]4 
5/20/14
