Int. No. 364

By Council Members Kallos, Chin, Koo, Vacca and Rodriguez
 
A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to geographic information system data on the open data portal.
 
Be it enacted by the Council as follows:
Section 1. Subdivision b of section 23-501 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended as follows:
      b.  "Data" means final versions of statistical or factual information (1) in alphanumeric form reflected in a list, table, graph, chart or other non-narrative form, that can be digitally transmitted  or processed; and (2) regularly created or maintained by or on behalf of and owned by an agency that records a measurement, transaction, or determination related to the mission of an agency.  Such term shall not include information provided to an agency by other governmental entities, nor shall it include image files, such as designs, drawings, maps, photos, or scanned copies of original documents, provided that it shall include statistical or factual information about such image files and shall include geographic information system data, such as information represented as a layer on an interactive map on a city website. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit an agency from voluntarily disclosing information not otherwise defined as "data" in this subdivision, nor shall it be deemed to prohibit an agency from making such voluntarily disclosed information accessible through the single web portal established pursuant to section 23-502.

ยง2.  Section 23-502 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new subdivision f to read as follows:
f. Such public data sets, where represented as a layer on an interactive map on a city web site, shall be made available on the web portal and such map shall conspicuously provide a link directly to the data set on the web portal.

ยง3. This local law shall take effect one hundred eighty days after enactment.

JCH
LS# 736
5/19/14
