Int. No. 1594
By Council Members Kallos, Constantinides and Barron
 
A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to providing open application program interfaces for all government services
 
Be it enacted by the Council as follows:
                     Section 1. Chapter 2 of title 23 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended to add a new section 23-202, to read as follows:
ยง 23-202 Open application program interfaces. a. Any information, including both text in a narrative form and data as defined in section 23-501, posted online or otherwise made available electronically to the public by an agency shall also be made available through a web application program interface that permits programs to request and receive such information directly from a city web portal.
b. Any non-emergency city services for which intake information is accepted from the public by phone, paper form, web application or mobile application, including but not limited to 311, shall also permit such intake to be made through a web application program interface that permits programs to transmit such information directly to a city web portal.
c. Any public data sets posted to the single web portal pursuant to chapter five of this title shall be exempted from the requirements of this section.
d. The department of information technology and telecommunications shall post in a single portal on the city website information on how to utilize each of the web application program interfaces required pursuant to subdivisions a and b of this section, including both plain language descriptions and technical details. Such portal shall also include a listing of the application program interfaces available pursuant to subdivisions a and b, the endpoint for each such application program interface, and, for those required pursuant to subdivision a, a description of the information contained therein.
ยง 2. This local law takes effect one year after enactment.
 
BJR
LS 8384
5/4/17  11:42AM
