Int. No. 774
 
By Council Members Kallos, Levin, Eugene, Rose, Wills, Miller, Mendez and Rosenthal
 
A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring information regarding subsidized child care.
 
Be it enacted by the Council as follows:
 
Section 1.  Chapter 9 of title 21 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding new section 21-909 to read as follows:
ยง 21-909 Reports regarding child care services. a. Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following terms shall have the following meanings:
1. "Child care center" means a program directly funded by ACS and licensed by the department of health and mental hygiene where certified teachers care for children ages 6 weeks through the end of pre-school.
2. "Family child care network" means child care directly funded by ACS and provided in private homes registered or licensed with the department of health and mental hygiene for children ages 6 weeks through 12 years.
3. "Informal care" means individuals providing child care to less than 3 non-related children who are not required to be licensed with the department of health and mental hygiene.
4. "Mandated voucher" means child care assistance that is required to be provided to certain families pursuant to section 410-w of the social services law.
5. "Non-mandated voucher" means child care assistance that may be provided to certain families pursuant to section 410-w of the social services law.
6. "Shelter system" means a system of temporary housing provided by the human resources administration or the department of homeless services.
7. "Subsidized child care program" means child care programs, including child care centers and family child care networks, that are directly funded by ACS and provide free or low cost child care to families with children ages 6 weeks to 12 years.
b. Beginning January 1, 2016, and quarterly thereafter, ACS shall furnish to the speaker of the city council and post on ACS' website, no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, a report regarding child care services that includes, at a minimum, the following information:
1. Any additions or changes that have been made to ACS' procedures relating to: (i) deciding under what circumstances a child care center will be evaluated for possible closure; (ii) the steps taken to prevent the closure of a child care center; (iii) the manner in which a center will be closed after the steps from item (ii) of this paragraph are followed, including how the employees, enrollees, and parents or caregivers of the enrollees are to be notified of the closure; and (iv) any efforts ACS will take to transition employees to other child care centers. Not more than 10 days following the effective date of the local law that added this section, ACS shall submit to the city council and post online its existing procedure(s) relating to items (i) through (iv) of this paragraph.
2. Any additions or changes that have been made to ACS' procedures relating to a parent's eligibility for subsidized child care. Not more than 10 days following effective date of the local law that added this section, ACS shall submit to the city council and post online its existing procedure(s) relating to such eligibility procedures.
3. A report detailing: (i) the average time elapsed between the submission of an application for a child care to ACS and the placement of a child in child care, disaggregated by borough; and (ii) the average time elapsed between the submission of an application for a child care to ACS by a child care center and the placement of a child in child care, disaggregated by borough.
4. A report detailing the following information for children residing in the shelter system: (i) the total number enrolled in subsidized child care programs; (ii) the number utilizing a voucher; and (iii) the number utilizing vouchers at subsidized child care programs.
5. A report detailing the following information for children receiving preventive services through ACS: (i) the total number enrolled in subsidized child care programs; (ii) the number utilizing a voucher; and (iii) the number utilizing vouchers at subsidized child care programs.
6. A report detailing the following information for children in the foster care system: (i) the total number enrolled in subsidized child care programs; (ii) the number utilizing a voucher; and (iii) the number utilizing vouchers at subsidized child care programs.
c. Beginning January 1, 2016, and the first of every January and July thereafter, ACS shall provide to the speaker of the city council and post on ACS' website a report of each subsidized child care program with a lease scheduled to expire in the following six month period. The report shall include the date each lease is scheduled to expire, and either a description of the steps being taken to renew each such lease or an indication that the lease will not be renewed.
d. Beginning on January 1, 2016, and monthly thereafter, ACS shall provide to the speaker of the city council and post on ACS' website a report disaggregated by total city-wide, borough, zip code and council district, and by the following age ranges, 0 to 23 months, 24 to 35 months, 36 to 47 months, 48 to 59 months, and 60 months to 13 years. The report shall include but not be limited to the total number of children enrolled in subsidized child care programs, disaggregated by the number enrolled in child care centers, family child care networks, and informal care, including whether such children are being served with a mandated voucher, non-mandated voucher, or are enrolled in a subsidized child care program without a voucher. The report shall include the number of vacancies in child care centers and family child care networks, disaggregated by total city-wide, borough, zip code and council district. The report shall include the total number of children enrolled in universal preschool in a subsidized child care program. No more than 10 days following the effective date of the local law that added this section, ACS shall submit to the city council and post on ACS' website a report detailing the information required by this subdivision for the prior two years.
d. Each report required by this section shall be in a non-proprietary format that permits automated processing.
ยง 2.  This local law shall become effective 60 days after its enactment into law.
 
AV
LS 1622.3630
Int. No. 292-2010
3/9/15
