Proposed Int. No. 773-A

By Council Members Kallos, Levin, Cabrera, Constantinides, Eugene, Gentile, Miller, Mendez, Wills, Torres, Menchaca, Lander and Treyger

A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring the department of education to provide data related student participation in free meals in school.

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. The administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new chapter 9 to title 21-A to read as follows: 

Chapter 9. School Meal Participation

                     § 21-970 School meal participation data.  a. For the purposes of this section:

                     After school snacks. “After school snacks” means a meal that consists of two food items offered during afterschool educational or enrichment activities;

                     After school supper. “After school supper” means a meal that consist of five food items offered during after school educational or enrichment activities;

                     Breakfast after the bell. “Breakfast after the bell” means a complete breakfast at the beginning of the school day served in the classroom, or breakfast picked up at grab and go carts; and

                     Grab and go carts. “Grab and go carts” means breakfast that can picked up from the cafeteria or from a designated location.

                     b. Not later than November 1, 2016, and no later than November 1st annually thereafter, the department shall submit to the speaker of the council and post on the department’s website a report which shall, at minimum, include:

                     1. the total number of students served breakfast before the school day begins;

                     2. the total number of students served breakfast after the bell disaggregated by: the total number of students served in the classroom, and the total number of students served via grab and go carts;

                     3. the total number of schools that have a salad bar in their cafeteria;

                     4. the total number of students served after school snacks;

                     5. the total number of students served after school supper; and

                     6. the food items offered for breakfast served before school begins, breakfast after the bell, breakfast via the grab and go carts, after school snacks and supper, and at the salad bars, including the most frequently offered items.

                     c. Such report shall also include the steps the department has taken to increase participation in the after school snack and supper programs, breakfast programs and free salad bars. Such report shall include, but not be limited to information regarding special initiatives undertaken and proposed by the department to increase student participation. Such report shall also list schools which have been designated to benefit from such initiatives and shall provide a comparison by individual school and school district. Such report shall compare the data required in this section from year to year commencing with the report required to be issued. Such report shall be applicable to all successor nutritional programs.

                     d. All information required by this section shall be aggregated citywide, as well as disaggregated by school, community school district, council district, borough, race, ethnicity, and the number of students in title one schools.

                     e. No information that is otherwise required to be reported pursuant to this section shall be reported in a manner that would violate any applicable provision of federal, state, or local law relating to the privacy of student information or that would interfere with law enforcement investigations or otherwise conflict with the interest of law enforcement. If the category contains between 0 and 9 students, or allows another category to be narrowed to be between 0 and 9 students, the number shall be replaced with a symbol.

§ 2. This local law takes effect immediately. .

LS#3053/3058/4797
KW
04/16/15
