Int. No. 900-A

By Council Members Kallos, Gentile, Constantinides, Arroyo, Greenfield, Levin and Wills

A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to the standardization of address and geospatial information on the open data portal

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. Section 23-505 of the administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new subdivision d to read as follows:

                     d. The manual described in subdivision a of this section shall include a technical standard requiring every public data set containing address information to utilize a standard field layout and presentation of address information and include corresponding community district and geospatial reference data. If there is a public data set for which an agency cannot utilize such standard field layout and presentation of address information, such agency shall report to the department and to the council the reasons why it cannot, and the date by which the agency expects that it will be able to utilize such standard field layout and presentation of address information, and such information shall be disclosed in the compliance plan prepared pursuant to section 23-506.

                     § 2. Within 30 days of the effective date of this section, the mayor shall designate an agency or official to convene a working group, which shall include members of the public, to recommend a standard field layout and presentation of address information and corresponding geospatial reference data for data sets available on the single web portal pursuant to section 23-502 of the administrative code of the city of New York. Within 10 months of the effective date of this section, such agency or official shall report such working group’s recommendations to the department of information technology and telecommunications and to the city council. Such recommendations shall be considered by the department of information technology and telecommunications in developing the technical standard described in subdivision d of section 23-505 of the administrative code of the city of New York.

§ 3. This local law takes effect one year after it becomes law, except that section two of this local law takes effect immediately.

BJR
LS #3890
11/16/15  10:06PM
