Int. No. 1220

By Council Members Kallos, Lander, Vacca and Chin

A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to the use of web analytics for city agency websites

Be it enacted by the Council as follows:

Section 1. Title 23 administrative code of the city of New York is amended by adding a new chapter 8 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 8

WEB ANALYTICS FOR AGENCY WEBSITES

§23-801 Definitions

§23-802 Web Analytics

§23-803 Reporting

 

§23-801 As used in this chapter: a. “Click” means a single instance of a website visitor following a hyperlink from one page to another.

b. "Department" means the department of information technology and telecommunications or any successor agency.

c. “Event” means a discrete action taken by a website visitor including page views, clicks, downloads and form submissions.

d. “Flow visualization” means an illustration or graphic analysis that displays the path website visitors take while visiting such website including, the pages such visitors  visited, the hyperlinks that were clicked by visitors and where they exited such website.

e. “Hit” means a request by a website visitor for any file from any page on a website. 

f. “Hyperlink” means a word, phrase, or image that links to another place in an electronic document or website or to an entirely different document or website.

g. “Page view” means a request by a visitor to a website to view a specific page of such website. 

h. “Site search” means the process of a visitor entering text into a section of a website in order to find content stored on such website.

i. “Web analytics” means the process of measuring, collecting, analyzing and reporting of internet data for the purposes of understanding and optimizing the usage of a website. Web analytics includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of an agency website’s clicks, events, hits, page views, new and repeat visitors, average amount of time that visitors spend viewing such website, the content of site searches by visitors and the use of flow visualization.

§23-802 Web Analytics. The department shall ensure that each agency utilizes web analytics in maintaining and optimizing such agency’s websites.

§23-803 Reporting.  Within one year of the effective date of the local law that added this section, and on or before December first of each year thereafter, the department shall for the immediately preceding fiscal year, submit to the council a report analyzing the implementation of web analytics for agency websites, which shall include, but not be limited to, a list of agencies and agency websites that are not in compliance with this chapter, a summary of the analyses resulting from the use of web analytics for each agency website and recommendations for improving the optimization of agency websites through the use of web analytics.

§ 2. This local law shall take effect one hundred twenty days after its enactment, provided, however, that the commissioner of the department shall take such measures as are necessary for its implementation, including the promulgation of rules, prior to such effective date.

KS
LS 2055/2014
8/12/14 
